---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 8"
date:   2020-10-30 11:35:33 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

AWS which stands for Amazon Web Services is a cloud computing platform that offers various compute, storage, network, and database services on demand with a pay as you go pricing model. This means that users only need to pay for the services that they use. There are many advantages to the unique pricing model that AWS offers and advantages of moving to their cloud. In this blog post, I will go over the basics of what cloud computing is, its  pricing advantages relating them to AWS, and the ways you can interact with services.

`Cloud Computing:` the cloud is the internet and the concept of cloud computing allows servers to be hosted on the cloud. This saves many time and money as they do not have to worry about server management.

`Advantages of Cloud Computing:` Some of the advantages of cloud computing include that there are no upfront costs. This means that you do not have to pay a lump sum of money before using services. Instead you use the AWS pay as you use model. The concept of economies of scale is another advantage AWS offers in which means that prices lower as more customers join AWS. Services can be adjusted as you want as they can be scaled up and down. This is an advantage as people do not have to worry about buying more servers or disk space and administer servers on their own as AWS takes care of these things for their users. Users scale on demand instead of over and under estimated capacity. Certain instances such as EC2 services each have their own subset of pricing models that can be chosen based on use cases and each offer their own pricing advantages such as reserved instances or spot instances. 

`AWS Pricing Plan:` AWS offer four main plans which are basic, developer, business, enterprise. Each plan has their own advantages for every users use case. It is important to understand and asses you needs before committing to a certain pricing model. For example, the technical support varies for each plan.

`Basic` available to all AWS users includes 7 core checks and tech support through community fourms
`Developer:` for users who want to explore and test the cloud includes 7 core checks and tech support during business hours
`Business` for users who have production work they want to do in the cloud includes full set of core check with 24/7 support
`Enterprise` for users who have large businesses that contain mission critical work includes full set of core check with 24/7 support

`AWS Shared Responsibility Model:` The shared responsibility model states guidelines on what the customer is responsible for and what AWS is responsible for. This model provides many advantages that benefit the customer. AWS takes responsibility of the cloud while the customer take responsibly of what is in the cloud. This allows users to focus on creating and developing which AWS takes care of software and hardware. 

`Interact With AWS - Three Models:` There are three main ways to interact with AWS and these are the `AWS Management Console` `CLI` and `SDK` the console is the website that offers users a GUI to create services (perhaps the most common). Next is the CLI which is using Terminal to access AWS services and use various command to provision them. The SDKs are used in code to configure services. The SDKs support many programming languages such as C++, Go, Java, JavaScript, .NET, Node.js, PHP, Python, and Ruby

Finally with AWS, you can go global within minutes. No more wasting time and money on servers and guessing capacity. Pay as you go, provision when you want and where you want, and share your innovations made on the cloud with everyone in minutes!