---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 9"
date:   2020-11-06 11:35:33 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

Let's talk about AWS EC2, perhaps one of Amazon's most well known serives. Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud well known as EC2 is a part of the many core computing services AWS offers. Another serivce well known to AWS cloud users and is also popular and wodely used in Amazon S3 or Simple Storage Service. In this blog I really want to dive deep on the concepts setting up an S3 Bucket and an EC2 Instance.

## Create an S3 Bucket
1. Go to the AWS Console and in the Find Services bar search for S3 
2. Once you are in the S3 you will be in the Buckets tab. Here click the orange create bucket button
3. Give the S3 Bucket a name, note in AWS the names for the bucket have a set of rules
- Bucket names must be globally unique
- No spaces in names
- No uppercase letters only lowercase
- Not be in IP adress format
4. Once the bucket is named select a region to host the bucket from
5. Next select the if you would like to keep or block public access. By defualt S3 blocks all public access
6. You can also disable and enable bucket versioning. Versioning allows users to retrive and restore all versions of all objects in an S3 bucket. I kept the option disabled
7. Once all of the settings have been configured on the page click create bucket and the bucket will now appear on the Buckets page in the AWS Console

## Create an EC2 Instace
1. Go to the AWS Console and in the Find Services bar search for EC2
2. In the EC2 Dashboard click the orange button that states Launch Instance
3. Next choose any AMI, AMI stands for Amazon Machine Image. I chose the Amazon Linux 2 AMI. They offer a variety of AMIs to select from such as Linx, Red Hat, Ubuntu and more. You can also choose from the AWS Marketplace
4. Once selected choose an instance type. Amazon offers a variety of instance types, and families ranging from a set of vCPUs, Memory, GB, EBS Optimized Avaialble and Network Performace so choose what you want based on your needs. I choose the free tier eligible t2.micro
5. Next Configure the Instance details where you must specify the number of instances, VPC network, subnet and more. I have left my settings as default.
6. Next add storage. Here you can specify the volume type, device, snaphot, sixe, volume type, IOPS, throughput, and if you want storage to be encrypted. Again I kept these settings default
7. Next you can add tags its a good practice but I choose not to.
8. After this you can configure the security group and set rules that regulate traffic to the instance from a number of ports such as TCP, HTTP, HTTPS and more.
9. Next you can click Launch to launch your instance. You will be prompted to select an exsisting key pair of create a new key pair. I chose to create a new key pair. Note that once you download the key pair save it some place safe as you will not be able to access the EC2 without it and cannot download it more than once.
10. Go back to the instance dashboard and there you should see your instance created pending. Once it comes back with a green check it means it is runiing and rady to use.
11. To connect to the instance simply right click on the instance created and select connect
