---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 3"
date:   2020-09-25 11:35:33 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

This blog post will go over ethics and security when it comes to computers. Discussions about ethics in technology are important to have and knjow about in technology as concepts of ethical hacking and securtiy are crucial. I thought I'd share my thoughts on this topic and discuss the CIA triangle.

The CIA Triad is commonly used in computer security. It is usually shown as a triangle with the tree points of the triangle being `Confidentiality`, `Integrity`, and `Availability`. Confidentiality is in place to prevent anyone from listening in or reading any communication that occurs between a client and server or two people. Integrity is in place to make sure all the information or data sent remains the same and is not changed by any unauthorized user. A man-in-the-middle attack occurs when an unauthorized user is listening to the communication between two people and may even alter the message. This goes against Confidentiality as the communication is no longer private and goes agaisnt Integrtiy as the message may have been altered. Finally, Availability is concerned with making sur authorized users are able to have access to resources.  `DDoS` Distribute Denial of Service happens when there are mulitple devices with multiple IP addresses that flood servers in attempts to bring the server down. Used to perform distributed denial-of-service attack, steal data, send spam, and allows the attacker to access the device and its connection. Sends a flood of packets to the target host to bring it down affecting availability A botmaster will install malware on a device or IoT (Internet of Things) without the owner of the devices knowledge. It then sends a flood of packets to the target host to bring it down affecting availability. A distruption of availability often occurs during a DDoS attack when servers are flooded by bots and are brought down making it unavailable to anyone. 

The DDoS example and the man in the middle attakcs are not ethical as they are done by unauthorized users usually in the pursuit to steal data and information. Ethics teaches us what is right and what is wrong but has changed over time. Hacking is an area in technology that has many ethical laws. There are ethical hackers are authorized users who are given permission to hack systems and run pen testing or testing purposes only to find vulnerabilitie . On the other hand there are many hackers who will try to pull of various attacks such as DDoS, viruses, malware, and many more to steal data or simply overload and bring down servers. While hacking as an unauthorized user is illegal, it is also illegal to hack back the person who hacked you.