---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 2"
date:   2020-09-17 11:35:33 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

Hi there welcome back to my weekly blog series for CIT 480. This week I worked on creating an Ansible playbook that will exectute installing and vonfiguring a LAMP stack for me. As you may have moticed in my other blog about Dockerfiles, this Ansible playbook is the same idea. It is yet another shrotcut of saving you from executing multiple commands. In this blog post I want to show a basic structure that I used for making my Ansible playbook in a Docker container

1. First we want to make and start a new Docker container so use the command `docker run –it -p 8080:80 ubuntu:18.04 /bin/bash` then install ansible using the command ` apt update && apt install -y ansible`
2.  Make a directory with any name using the command`mkdir -p /home/namehere ; cd /home/namehere`
3. Then make a new file where you will be placing all the Ansible playbook commands in using the command `nano nameofplaybook` 
4. In the playbook, start the structure using the following. This tells the playbook to run on localhost in the IP address 127.0.0.1. You can also use AWS servers or any other connections. The tasks will list all the command you want to exectue in the playbook
---
- hosts: 127.0.0.1
 connection: localhost
 tasks:
5. Once you are ready to run the Ansible playbook run the command `ansible-playbook nameofplaybook`

I won't list out all the tasks I had but will show a few examples
The following is used to install PHP files. When installing anything use the apt: and name: commands to list the files to install
 - name: Install PHP
        apt:
          name:
            - php
            - libapache2-mod-php
            - php-mysql
            - php7.2-cli
            - php7.2-curl
            - php7.2-gd
            - php7.2-mbstring
            - php7.2-mysql
            - php7.2-xml
            - php-xml
          state: present
        become: true

 The following shows how to edit files by using the lineinfile: command and follow it with the path: where you specify what path the file is in that you want to edit. regexp: command is used to state the changes you want to make and the line: command specifies what existing line you want edit
      - name: Edit Files
        lineinfile:
          path: /etc/apache2/mods-enabled/dir.conf
          regexp: '^(.*)index.html index.cgi index.pl index.php index.xhtml index.htm(.*)$'
          line: 'index.php index.html index.cgi index.pl index.xhtml index.htm'
          backrefs: yes

That is it for this blog post I hope this help give a good idea on how to start making you Ansible playbook in a Docker container