---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 4"
date:   2020-10-01 11:35:33 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
Hi there welcome back to my weekly blog series for CIT 480! This week I worked on creating a website that used CSS, JavaScript, and HTML. For this blog post I decided to give a very broad overview of what each of these languages are and how they contribute in their won ways to the creation of a website as well as what I use to create a site. I learned a lot of the basics and overview to web development in my CIT 384 class here at CSUN.

Personally, I like to use the editors of Glitch or JSFiddle which are both really great to use but you can use what you feel most comfortable with. The best part of Glitch is that is stores all the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript in one are along with any images you may have used on your site. This save me time and makes my work organized as it is all in one area.

HTML: Hypertest Markup Language is a markup language used in creating the structure of webpages. When you begin to make a site you will almost always begin with writing out HTML. Without HTML you practically do not have much to work with at all so this is very important. You structure the website with where the items such as a title, subtitle, headings, sub headings, paragraphs, lists, images, and much more should be placed on the site. HTML contains many tags that are denoted by greater than and less than signs with content in between and ends with a forward slash greater than and less than signs. For example <p>Hello World</p> for paragraph. Certain tags such as `<head>` `<body>` and others must be in place in your HTML file to ensure proper structure. There are many tags and best practices you will run into and too many for me to list here so I will save that for another blog post!

CSS: Cascading Style Sheets are personally to me the fun part of making a website. Now that you have written out the HTML you can get creative here with different fonts, sizes, colors, and more! For colors the list is endless. Colors can be written as ‘black’ ‘red’ ‘blue’ or in HEX such as #000000 for black and #ffffff or even #3a9443 which is a nice emerald green. My tip for when you want to pick out a color you like is to use the Digital Color Meter which if you drag your mouse over any color you like but do not know the HEX for, it will provide you with the RGB (red green blue). Google color picker and enter the RGB values to get the HEX color. You can also import nice fonts to use on your site. I use GoogleFonts for this. Just remember, reference your CSS and fonts links in you HTML page. For example `<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">` is used to reference my CSS in the HTML and `<link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Kalam" rel="stylesheet">` is used to reference my GoogleFont used for my site. 

JavaScript: This is the tricky part but when used on your site it really brings it to life! JavaScript is a programming language. With HTML and CSS we were displaying content but with JavaScript we can make our site interactive 

Here is a link to my Glitch site I made about my favorite hobby, Henna Tattoos. `https://glitch.com/~sumeeyah-haq-comp484-project-1`. This site has more of CSS and HTML. My other site which is an interactive map of CSUN and a quiz game really shows how HTML, CSS, and JavaScript make the website truly nice. `https://jsfiddle.net/sumeeyahhaq/aojpbwv7/2/` Feel free to explore my HTML, CSS, and JavaScript and in another blog I might take each of the topics and dive deep into explaining them one at a time. I hope this gives a good overview on what makes a website!