---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 11"
date:   2020-11-20 11:35:33 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

When studying for the AWS Cloud Practioner exam, some of the similar sounding terms can get quite confusing when in faact they are very different from one another. In this blog post I will be breaking down what CloudFormation, CloudTrail, CloudFront, and CloudWatch mean and how they function. These term have come up on the Cloud Practioner exam and it is important to know what they are and how to tell them apart. I personally had struggled to tell them apart but if you read this post I hope it will help you understand the big difference between them all.  

# Cloud___ Telling Terms Apart 
`CloudFormation:` is a service used to allow users to create templates that specify resources and how to create and provision thoes resources all togehter when launching the stack. A stack is a collection of AWS resources specified in a template. Templates have a unique format in which users are given the option add a description, parameters, mappings, conditions, transforms, resources, and outputs. The only required part needed for a CloudFormation template is the resources section the rest I had just mentioned are optional. Templates are written in either JSON or YAML. I like to think of CloudFormation as a "formation" of a stack to help me remeber what it is.

`CloudTrail:` is a service that is responsible for tracking APIs and activity in the infrastructure be it from the console, CLI, or SDKs are tracked. What is nice about having this service enabled and configured is that it can tell you exactly the user and source IP adresses the API calls were coming from and this allows the owner of the console to have high security by being able to keep an eye on activity happening. I remember CloudTrail as a way to keep track on the "trails" users have left behind. Just remember if you see API in a question its probably more likely going to be associated with CloudTrail.

`CloudFront:` is a service that is best known as a content delivery network and is used by many movie and tv show streaming services such Hulu and gaming apps such as King. The service allows for the delivery of static or dynamic content at a high speed with little to no latency. Lets say you, a user, want to retrive a movie. Your request will be taken by CloudFront and get directed to an Edge Location. If the movie is cached in the Edge Location it will be taken and given to you quickly at low latency. If it was not in the cache of the Edge Location it will go to the orgin and cache it in the Edge Location for the next time anyone requests the movie. Think of Edge Locations being in the "front" or every user to associate it with CloudFront.

`CloudWatch:` is a service that is easy to get confused with CloudTrail, just remember CloudTrail is associated with tracking APIs and CloudWatch is associated with collecting logs. The CloudWatch service is pretty helpful when it comes to running Lambda functions especially or any service practically as you can view the metrics, logs, and events associated with it. You can even set alarms in CloudWatch. A tip to rembering what this service does is that CloudWatch is used to "watch" over services

This is my advice and tips on learning the services and being able to tell them apart. I hope these breif descriptions provide some guidance for you as you take the AWS Cloud Practioner exam or as you venture into the AWS cloud!

