---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 10"
date:   2020-11-12 11:35:33 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

What are Lambda functions and how do they wokr to interact with almost all of the AWS services? In this blog post we will dive deep into the AWS La,bda service and learn about what it is and what it supports, and I will show you how to get started with Lambda by creating a simple auto populated `hello world` message from AWS in the service. 

# AWS Lambda
AWS Lambda is well known for being a serverless computer service as it lets users run code without the need to manage any servers as AWS takes care of hardware and servers for their users. What is nice and unique about this service is that like the many other services AWS offers, Lambd only makes users may for what they have used or pay as they go. Lambda functions often run as triggers to kick start anither service. For instance say I upload a file to my S3 bucket. I can write a Lambda function that takes each new file I have uploaded to an S3 bucket and itterate the file with a unique name a given amount of times and upload all the new itteration to my S3 bucekt. In the Lambda funtion I have essentially triggered the S3 service. This is not the only service Lambda functions can trigger.

# Supported Languages
Lambda supports many different runtimes as well. As of this blog post which is November 2020 the runtimes supported are .NET Core 3.1 (C#/PowerShell), .NET Core 2.1 (C#/PowerShell)Go 1.x, Java 1 (Corretto), Node.js 12.x, Pyton 3.8, and Ruby 2.7

# Hello World in Lambda
1. Go to the AWS Console and in the Find Services Bar search Lambda
2. Once Lambda is open click the orange tab that says Create Function
3. Enter a function name and then choose the runtime for this example I will be choosing the runtime of node.js 12.x
4. Keep all settings as default and click the orange button that says Create function
5. Once created you will be redirected to a pages that has two windows open in the configuration tab. One is the designer winodw in which users can add AWS services that will trigger the Lambda or add a desitnation where the Lambda will send output to.
6. In the bottom window you will see the function code. This is where you can write up all the code you want to, test it, and deploy it just as you would in any IDE. 
7. At the top is a drop down menu in which you can select your test event before testing the code. I have selcted the hello-world template for this example but you can choose different test for all the different services. For the S3 example I had mentioned earlier I might have choosen the Amazon S3 Put event template.
8. Once I give the event a name I selct create and then hit the test button
9. At the bottom I will see a new tab that is called function result with the output like the following showing that my code is working, that this is the latest version, how long it took to run, status code 200, and my hello world message. <br>
`Response:` <br>
`{` <br>
  `"statusCode": 200,`<br>
  `"body": "\"Hello from Lambda!\""`<br>
`}`<br>

`Request ID:`<br>
`"13c30771-aba8-413f-ab90-acfb7edd8bfe"`<br>

`Function logs:`<br>
`START RequestId: 13c30771-aba8-413f-ab90-acfb7edd8bfe Version: $LATEST`<br>
`END RequestId: 13c30771-aba8-413f-ab90-acfb7edd8bfe`<br>
`REPORT RequestId: 13c30771-aba8-413f-ab90-acfb7edd8bfe	Duration: 14.46 ms`<br>	`Billed Duration: 100 ms`<br>	`Memory Size: 128 MB	Max Memory Used: 64 MB	Init Duration: 143.56 ms`<br>	

Lambda can be used to do so many things the list is endless and this is why it is such a core service you will always run into as you use the AWS service. This was just a simple tutorial but I hope it helps with getting an idea and start with what AWS Lambda is.