---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 12"
date:   2020-12-04 11:35:33 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

CloudFormation. In this blog I will discuss what CloudFormation is and show you how to create and run a simple CloudFormation template in the AWS console that creates an S3 bucket.

# CloudFormation Template 
CloudFormation templates are written in either JSON or YAML and are used to specify various services that you want created. Template formating for CloudFormation only has one required section, resources. Outputs, Transform, Conditions, Mappings, Parameter, Metadata, Description, and Format Version are all optional.

`Resources` This part of the template is where the user can specify the services you want and what parts of thoes services you want created. In the tutorial we specify an S3 Bucket as our resource

# CloudFormation Tutorial
1. To create a simple CLoudFormation template that will create and S3 Bucket upon being run. Open an text editor you have. 
2. In the text editor, we will be using JSON to create a template that has only resources as this is the only required section in the creation of a template.
3. This is the CloudFormation template I have created that will create a resource of an S3 bucket called MyS3Bucket which will apear in all buckets that will be created form running this template. Name the resource as you desire. I have specifed the type using AWS::S3::Bucket this must be there to let the template know that we want to create an S3 Bucket. <br>
`{` <br>
`"Resources": {` <br>
 `“MyS3Bucket": {` <br>
`"Type": "AWS::S3::Bucket"` <br>
`}` <br>
`}` <br>
`}` <br>

4. Go to the AWS Console and in the find services bar search CloudFormation.
5. Once the CloudFormation page opens click on the orange button that says Create stack
6. The prerequisite tab will show three options for how you want to add a template. You can create a template using the designer which is like an IDE where you can drag resource types from the side bar to a graph and the template will be generated as you drag. You can also select a sample template but for this tutorial lets select the options that says Template is ready.
7. In the tab below that states specify template, you have two options. You can either selct a template stored in an S3 bucket by specifying the URL or uplaod a template file. Since I have already created a template I will slect the option that states Upload a template file. Once uploaded an S3 URL will be automaitcally generated and you have an option to view the template in Designer.
8. Now you will need to specify a stack name and parameters will appear on the bottom tab if your template had any in this example I did not use paramteres. Once you type a stack name click next.
9. Next you can confugure stack options by adding tags and choosing an IAM role that will have permisions to create edit and delete resources in the CloudFormation stack. I did not add any tags nor permissions. You also have some advanced options here that you can set such as stack policies, rollback configuration, notification options, and stack creation options. Click next.
10. Review and launch your stack by clicking the oragne create stack button. You will be rediected to a dashboard that shows all the CloudFormation stacks and the stack will have a status of create in progress. 
11. To check and see if the CLoudFormation template ran properly, go to S3. In the buckets section you should see a new bucket created. Mine shows a bucket called `mys3bucket-mys3bucket-1woz4xhzeien9`. You have successfully created your first CloudFormation template!