---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 1"
date:   2020-09-06 11:35:33 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

Hi there! Welcome back to my CIT 480 weekly blog series. This week I learned about the principles of user interface designs having to do with the Gestalt principles in my COMP 485 class at CSUN. The Gestalt principles offer a variety of theories about visual perception and how users tend to see the whole figure rather than individual pieces. These principles offer insight about how to design interfaces that can be perceived easily by users and therefore I think its an important part for all web designers and applications developers to understand. It was quite an interesting topic to learn about as I had studied how the Amazon site applied these principles correctly and incorrectly. I though today I’d share a brief definition of the Gestalt principles below for this blog post. 

1. Proximity: The first Gestalt principle which states that two objects that are closer together appear grouped together. An example of this is how a product on a retail site will appear close to the description of the rpoduct are automatically percived as grouped.
2. Similarity: This principle states that objects that look similar to one a mother are perceived to be grouped together.  
3. Continuity: This principle was probably my favorite one as it is so interesting how our minds perceive objects as whole continuous figures instead of individual parts. The principle of continuity states that objects are almost always perceived as whole instead of parts. For example, look at the IBM logo, do you see ‘IBM’ or individual shapes?
4. Closure: The principle of closure states that our mind perceives objects as whole objects even if they are not. For example if a shape of a circle has missing parts we will still see a whole circle and not the individual parts that make that figure. 
5. Symmetry: The principle of symmetry states that we reduce the complexity of complex objects by viewing them as whole. An example of this is imagine two diamonds overlapping, we do not see one diamond or the other and instead perceives the two overlapping diamonds as one. 
6. Figure/Ground: This principle states that the background and foreground are used so the users perception is attracted to the figures in the foreground and away from the background. An example of this could be how a pop-up ad appears on the site directing the users perception to the ad and away from the site. 
7. Common Fate: This principle states that objects that are moving like one another are perceived as grouped. For example, If there are circles on a screen but only a few of them moved up and down, they would be perceived as grouped

Overall this class has been interesting and eye opening when it comes to learning to design applications properly and I cannot wait to learn more.