---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 2"
date:   2020-09-17 11:35:33 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

This weeks blog will go over the basics of Docker. I thought I'd dedicate this blog post to go over some basic docker command with you all and explain what they do. Follow along with this post if you'd like to know more about Docker and some easy commands you need to know and will be using often when interacting with Docker. 

Overview of Docker
Docker: is a platform that uses containers for making it easy to create and deploy applications.
Container: allows all part of the application to be stored in individual packages. For example, one can have containers for libraries or code All containers are seperate from one another. 

Docker Commands
- `docker ps`: used to check for any active containers and returns the container ID, image, command, date created, status, ports, and names. NOTE if you do not see any information populated in the fileds I mentioned, you do not have any active containers
- `docker ps -a`: similar to the command above, excpet it returns ALL containers active or not active
- `docker run -it --name addnamehere ubuntu:18:04 bash`: This command is used to create a new container. To break it down like how I saw in the lab I did for CIT 480 run means run a new container, -it means there should be an interactive terminal for this container, --name is to add a name replace addnamehere with the name of your container, ununtu:1804 is the image that is to be used (in my lab it seemed that 18.04 was the latest version so this might change for you depending on when you read the blog), and finally bash which is to run bash when the container is created.
- `apt-get update && apt-get upgrade`: This command on Mac works as "apt update && apt upgrade" and is used to upgrade and update the repositories. This is important to once you have created a new container as you may encounter errors if you do not run this command.
- `docker start containernamehere`: start the container that you have created replacing containernamehere with the name of the container you have created
- `nano filenamehere`: I wanted to end on this command as if you need to have a text editor in terminal nano works well. There are other editors such as vi and vim which you can feel free to explore. I had used nano in my CIT 160 class and feel comfortable using it but its your choice! On Mac type in the editor what you need to and follow these steps to exit. To exit use control-x to exit, Y to save N to continue editing, and control-m to save file and exit. 

These are some of the simple and most helpful basic commads I learned from Docker that I run into almost 100% of the time. If you have these basics down then the rest is simple. You can get very specific with command in Docker and I could give you all a whole list of commands and descriptions but I will save that for another blog post!