---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 0"
date:   2020-09-03 11:35:33 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

Hi there! This is my first blog post for the CIT 480 Blog series. This week I made this site using Jekyll and GitHub pages. I am familiar with GitHub and merging branches as well as some of the git commands used nut was very new to creating a site using Jekyll. As frustrating as it was setting up the site, I learned a lot from my mistakes. The best way to learn is by failing. In this blog post, I will dedicate it to showing you how to create a site using Jekyll and GitHub and let you make the posts on your own. Follow along the steps below and hopefully you can get a site up and running like mine! I am using a MacOS if this makes any difference.

1. In the terminal make a directory for where the store information will be stored in for example `mkdir cit480`
2. Go into the new directory created and go to GitHub and make a new repository following the format of `name.github.io` 
3. Now go to settings on GitHub and open settings and navigate to the tab that states GitHub pages 
4. Here change to the master branch and to the docs file and click save. 
5. Now go back to the code page on GitHub and clone this repository in your terminal using the command `git clone https://github.com/username/repositoryname`
6. After this go into the repository you cloned and add the Jekyll files to docs using the command `jekyll new docs` which if we use the command `ls` we should see a variety go Gemfiles and other associated files such as _post and others in the docs file
7. Now commit these changes made by executing this series of command. Get used to executing this series of commands often as this is how you add changes made locally, commit the changes (make sure the message is useful so you can track your history of changes easily), and push changes out to your site.
`git status` 
`git add .` 
`git status ` 
`git commit -m “Message Here” ` 
`git push` 
8. Now click on the link to your site
9. Congratulations! Your site is now up and running you can go in and edit the _config and _posts files to customize your site