<h1> EBS vs. EFS vs. Instance Store</h1>

Let’s talk about EC2 Storage options available through AWS. EC2 or Elastic Compute Cloud is an AWS service that allows users to spin up their own servers like virtual machines and then run their application on it. For it there are three potential storage options to choose form. These are EBS, EFS, and Instance Stores. 

<h2>EBS </h2>
EBS stands for Elastic Block Store which is a network drive that you can attach to your instances while they run. These EBS volumes are locked to an Availability Zone meaning it cannot be moved to another Availability Zone. Now you may be wondering, how do you migrate an EBS volume across AZs. Simply take a snapshot, restore the snapshot to another AZ
The volume types for EBS are General Purpose SSD, Provisioned IOPS SSD, Throughput Optimized HDD, and Cold HDD. IOPS stands for input and output per second. 

- General Purpose SSD (GP2): Recommended for most workloads with 1 GiB - 16 TiB and Maximum IOPS 16,000
- Provisioned IOPS SSD (IO1 and IO2): Critical business applications and large database workloads 4 GiB - 16 TiB Maximum IOPS 64,000
- Throughput Optimized HDD (ST1): For big data, data warehouses, log processing and it cannot be a boot volume
- Cold HDD (SC1): For large volumes of data that is infrequently accessed cannot be a boot volume 500 GiB - 16TiB Maximum IOPS 250 Maximum throughput of 250 MiB

<h2>Instance Store</h2>
An Instance Store is another type of storage volume that can be user by EC2 Instances. Some of the EC2 instances do not come with Root EBS volumes but come with an instance store that is physically attached to the machine allowing it to have high IOPS. On termination the instance store is lost but the data survives reboots.

<h2>EFS</h2>
Elastic File System is another type of storage that can be attached to EC2 instance as it is a managed network file system that can be mounted on many EC2 across multiple AZ. EFS works with EC2 instances in multi AZ whereas EBS is linked to one EC2 in one AZ at a time. 

There is no right or wrong type of storage volume you can attach to your EC2 instance, it all depends on what works best based on your use case. If you need something that is multi AZ, AZ locked, physically attached to the EC2, or a network drive, this should hopefully give you an outline of the differences in storage volume options. 