<h1>Git Hub Actions and CodeDeploy Part 1</h1>

In this blog post, I will demonstrate step by step how to achieve creating the following
(A) Create a EC2
(B) Host Website on EC2
(C) Create 2 IAM Roles
(D) Run Code Deploy Agent
(F) Pull Contents from GitHub to EC2

This blog post will navigate you through the steps needed to set up CodeDeploy in AWS and then connect it to GitHub using GitHub actions so that the changes made in your GitHub repository will be reflected on a website hosted on EC2. This will be a two part blog. Let’s get started on part one.

CodeDeploy: is a service offered by AWS that allows you to automate deployments to your applications with almost no down time instead of going in and manually making changes. The changes can be detected from CodeCommit in which all the applications code and content are stored in a repository within the AWS console or from you GitHub account. Today I will be choosing the lather option. 

<h3>Code Deploy Agent</h3>
1. Run the following commands to install the CodeDeploy agent.
- ‘sudo apt update’
- ‘sudo apt install ruby-full’
- ‘sudo apt-get install wget’
- ‘cd /home/ubuntu’
- ‘wget https://bucket-name.s3.region-identifier.amazonaws.com/latest/install' bucket-name is the name of the Amazon S3 bucket that contains the CodeDeploy Resource Kit files for your region. region-identifier is the identifier for your region. 
- ‘chmod +x ./install’
- ‘sudo ./install auto’
- ‘sudo service codedeploy-agent status’
- ‘sudo service codedeploy-agent start’
- ‘sudo service codedeploy-agent status’
13. Attach an IAM role to your EC2 instance which I called EC2CodeDeploy with the following attributes
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "ec2:*"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
14. In your GitHub repository, create an appspec.yml file with no web hooks that should look like this
version: 0.0
os: linux
files:
  - source: /index.html
    destination: /var/www/html/
15. On terminal go to ‘cd /var/www/‘
16. Run git clone to clone your repository in /var/www/
17. Run sudo vi /etc/apache2/sites-available/000-default.conf and change the Document Root part to /var/www/reponamehere
18. Run sudo service apache2 graceful and click on the link to the public IPv4 of the EC2 instance which should show the website up and running.
19. Go to IAM in the AWS console and create a new role for CodeDeploy that is an AWS managed role called AWSCodeDeployRole.

In this blog you have learned to create an EC2 instance that hosts your website with contents grabbed from your GitHub repository manually. You have also installed the CodeDeploy agent that will be needed for the next part of this project. Now if you were to make changes you would manually have to go through these steps to ensure your updated site is available. In the next blog post I will show you how to create the CodeDeploy stage and add GitHub actions so deployments are automated 
