<h1> EC2 Key Terms and Knowledge</h1>

EC2 or Elastic Compute Cloud is a core and popular AWS service that allows you to launch virtual machines, store data on virtual drives (EBS), distribute load across machines (ELB), and scale services using an auto-scaling group (ASG)
By default the EC2 comes with a private IP for the internal AWS network and a public IP for the world wide web. To gain access to your EC2 instances, use SSH which allows you to control a remote machine all using the command line When using SSH into the EC2 instance you can only use the public IP as you are not in the same network

<h3>Security Groups</h3>
Security Groups control how traffic is allowed into or out of the EC2 machines act like a firewall for the EC2 instances. They can be attached to multiple instances and are locked to a region and VPC. It is important to note that all inbound traffic is blocked by default and all outbound traffic is allowed by default. EC2 instances can communicate with one another if they have the security group permissions. For example...

- EC2 Instance A has Security Group 1 and Security Group 2. 
- EC2 Instance B has Security Group 2. 
- EC2 Instance C Security Group 1. 
This means that EC2 Instance B can communicate with EC2 Instance A not C and EC2 Instance C communicate with EC2 Instance A not B

<h3>EC2 Pricing Model and Use Cases</h3>
- EC2 On Demand: pay for what you use has the highest cost, no upfront payment, no long term commitment. Great for short term uninterrupted workloads
- EC2 Reserved: minimum one year to three years with discounts when you pay upfront or partial
- Reserved Instance: long workload cannot change the EC2 instance type whenever
- Convertible Reserved: change the EC2 instance type whenever 
- Schedule Reserved Instances: instance runs on a schedule and is stopped on other items
- EC2 Spot Instance: short workloads for cheap and when the instance exceeds the maximum price, you will use the instance
- EC2 Dedicated Instance: book an entire physical server and control everything

<h3>Other Noteable Information</h3>
Elastic Network Interfaces or ENI represents a virtual network card and provides EC2 with network connectivity

AMI or Amazon Machine Image provides information required to launch an instance. You can build custom images for Windows and linux machines

EC2 User Data allows you to bootstrap the instance meaning launching of commands when a machine starts. The script is only run once at the instance. It gets automatically run with the sudo c command to give you root privileges



