<h1>SQS vs. SNS vs. SES</h1>

I have been for the past month studying for the Certified Developer Associate with AWS and have often gotten confused with the differences between SES, SQS, and SNS. I recommend getting experience in utilizing these AWS services in the console as these have personally helped me understand them in detail and now tell the differences between the three. Below is a breakdown of my notes that I have been taking on the three services from personal experience and studying through ACloudGuru. This blog will also go through some of the services key components that you should know for the exam.

<h2>SQS</h2>
SQS: Simple Queue Service is a message queue service and is a pull based system well known and often used to decouple systems meaning keeping systems independent of one another. A queue is a temporary repository (holding spot) for messages waiting to get processed. The messages can be up to 256KB in size and messages can be kept in the queue from one minute to 14 days, by default it is 4 days

Visibility Timeout: Polled messages are invisible to other applications so they do not process the message. The visibility timeout is the amount of time given to the application to process the message. If the polled messages are incomplete by the application that polls the messages or some error occurs, the messages will go back to the queue for another application to poll. Default timeout is 30 seconds and maximum is 12 hours

<h2>Types of SQS Queues and Polling</h2>
Standard Queue:  Unlimited transactions. Guarantees that a message is delivered at least once. Best effort ordering ensures messages are delivered in the order they are sent but occasionally more that one copy of a message might be delivered out of order or duplicates. Default

FIFO Queue: 300 transactions per second. First in first out delivery means that the order in which messages are sent and received is strictly preserved. A messages is delivered once and available until a consumer processes and deletes it making no duplicates

Short Polling: returns responses immediately even if the message queue is empty resulting in empty responses you have to still pay for

Long Polling: periodically polls the queue and does not return a response until a message arrives in the message queue or the long poll timeout

<h2>SNS</h2>
SNS: Simple Notification Service is a web service that makes it easy to set up, operate, and send notifications from the cloud and is a push based system. Used to send SMS and Emails, trigger Lambda functions, or send notifications. It uses a pubsub, publish and subscribe, model meaning application publish or push messages to a topic and subscribers receive messages from a topic. Durable meaning it prevents messages from being lost through the storing of messages across multiple AZs

<h2>SES</h2>
SES: Simple Email Service is a scalable and highly available email service to send marketing, notification, and transactional emails to customers. Used to send automated emails, emails confirming online purchases, or send marketing emails. Can be used to trigger Lambda functions or SNS notifications
