<h1> EBS vs. EFS vs. Instance Store</h1>

Lets discuss the poular and commonly used service of Elastic Load Balancer. This is a popular service that help in forwarding traiffc to multiple servers. In this blog post, we will dive deep into the conecpt of load balancing, review the types of load balancers, and go over the cocnept of scalability which is important to understand before we lear about load balancing

<h2>What is Scalability </h2>
Scalability: means an application or system can handle greater loads by adapting

Vertical Scalability: means you need to increase the size of the instance. For example going from t2.micro to a t2.large

Horizontal Scalability: increase the number of instances for the application. For example you add more systems
High Availability: running applications in at least 2 data centers. The goal is to survive a data center loss

<h2>Types of Load Balancers</h2>
Load Balancing: are servers that forward internet traffic to multiple servers downstream. It will do health checks of your instances, provide high availability across zones, separate private and public traffic and handle any failures Load balancers can be internal or external

Health Check: enable the load balancer to know if instances it forwards traffic to are available to reply to requests. 

Classic Load Balancer: old generation and supports HTTP, HTTPS (Layer 7), and TCP (Layer 4)

Application Load Balancer: supports HTTP, HTTPS, and WebSocket (Layer 7). Can route to different target groups such as a specific path, query, port, and more

Network Load Balancer: supports TCP, TLS, and UDP (Layer 4).

Load Balancer Stickiness: it is possible to implement stickiness so that the same client is always redirected to the same instance behind a load balancer. The cookie used for stickiness has an expiration date you control
Use case: make sure the user doesn’t lose their session data

Cross Zone Load Balancing: each load balancer instance distributes evenly across all registered instances in all AZ
- 3 AZ’s with their own Load Balancer and two EC2 instances each can have the Load Balancers communicate with the EC2 instances in any AZ
- Without this you only have Load Balancing within each AZ
- Is always on by default for the Application Load Balancer but not for the Network Load Balancer and Classic Load Balancer
- Is always free on on the Application Load Balancer and Classic Load Balancer but not for the Network Load Balancer

ELB Connection Draining: Time to complete in flight requests while the instance is de-registering or unhealthy. New connections will be redirected to a healthy load balancer Classic Load Balancing calls this concept Connection Draining and the ALB and NLB calls this the Deregistration Delay

