<h1>Amazon Relational Database ServiceRDS</h1>

In the last blog post we discussed that DynamDB is an Amazon Web Services that is popularly used by made users looking for an easy NoSQL database service as it is fully managed by AWS. As I am studying for the Solutions Architect exam, in todays blog post I thought it would be best to also review another popular and highly used family of databases found in the service called Amazon RDS or Amazon Relational Database Service

<h2>What is RDS </h2>
Different from DynamoDB, Amazon RDS is used for databases that need SQL. Currently, there are six total databases you can utilize in RDS which are PostgreSQL, MySQL, MariaDB, Oracle, SQL, and of course Amazons very own Amazon Aurora. Amazon Aurora is perhaps the most advertised within AWS as it supports both MySQL and PostgreSQL databases and promises to deliver speed than the two and includes 15 read replicas per three AZ’s

<h2>Backups and Encryption </h2>
RDS orders backups automatically enabled for all users unless unchecked by the user. There is a 7 day retention period of the automated backups and data can be restored to any time period. DB snapshots are another form of backup but must be manually enabled by the user and the users can set the retention period of the backups to be as long as they like. Data can be encrypted in RDS at flight or in rest. At rest, data in the master database and the associated read replicas are encrypted using AWS KMS. If the master database was not encrypted, you cannot encrypt the read replicas. To encrypt the read replica in the event the master database in unencrypted, users need to create a copy of the un-encrypted database, copy the snapshot and enable encryption for the snapshot, and restore the database from the encrypted snapshot. For encryption in flight, SSL certificates are used. 

<h2>Read Replicas vs. Multi AZ </h2>
Read Replicas are used to scale whereas the Multi AZ is used to aid in disaster recovery. Both are used for different scenarios and should be known. Multi AZ are synchronous and strongly consistent where as read replicas are asynchronous and are eventually consistent.

<h2>RDS + Elastic Beanstalk </h2>
Elastic Benastalk is another AWS service that lets users create and scale out their web applications. RDS and Elastic Beanstalk work hand in hand as users can implement RDS instance inside the elastic beanstalk or outside of it. When users launch the RDS instance from inside the Elastic Beanstalk console then it will be created when you create the Elastic Beanstalk and when the EBS is deleted, the RDS is also deleted. To prevent the deletion users should create the RDS instance from outside of the Elastic Beanstalk as that will allow them to delete the Elastic Beanstalk without affecting the RDS instance. 
