<h1>ElasticCache vs. CloudFront</h1>

<p>ElasticCache and CloudFront are two very popular and commonly used AWS services when it comes to storing any sort of data, files, etc using a caching system. The two can get confused with one another which is why it is important to be able to distinguish the two when studying for the AWS certifications or when navigating the AWS cloud to see which one is best to apply in your infrastructure of services for application you may have. This blog post will dive deep into (A) ElastiCache and (B) CloudFront so you can understand the two services and the difference between the two.</p>

<h2>ElastiCache</h2>
<p>ElasticCache is defined by AWS as an in memory database that allows users to retrieve memory quickly due to the usage of the in-memory storage of data as opposed to disk based storage of data which has a slower retrieval time. This service can be used if you want to store a users session data. ElasticCache uses two types of caching mechanisms known as Redis and Memcached. Most commonly used is Redis which spans through multiple Availability Zones, can create backups, restore data, and ensures your data is durable. The other caching mechanism not commonly used is Memcached which unlike Redis has no backups, no ability to restore data, but is used for data sharding. </p>

<p>Terms specific to the cache you should remember are cache hit, cache miss, lazy loading, write through, and cache evictions.  A cache hit occurs when the item requested from a user is stored in the cache. If it is not stored in the cache it will have to go to the database to retrieve the requested item. This is called a cache miss. You can load all the data into the cache through using lazy loading which is great because you will never have a cache miss but the cache will be really full and therefore slow. Instead some may want to use a write through method which will add and update the cache when data is put into the database. Data stored in the cache can be evicted using cache evictions if the data has not been accessed frequently or users can opt to set a TTL to clear the item from the cache on a given period of time</p>

<h2>AWS CloudFront:</h2>
<p>CloudFront is defined by AWS as a content delivery network or a CDN. This service stores data in what are called edge locations to help make the reads faster and better.  First Time client makes a request for an item it goes to the Edge Location then to the Origin then back to the Edge Location to the user as well as the cache in the Edge Location where it will be stored. So the second time client makes a request for an item the request goes to the Edge Location instead of the origin and then to the Cache where the item is delivered to the client quicker than the first time.Origins are where the items and data are stored and can be S3 buckets, EC2, or even Application Load Balancers. Users can use geo restrictions to restrict who can access content or even prevent users from accessing content from the edge locations CloudFront Caching is similar to ElasticCache is the fact that you can set TTL for items in the cache. But, you can also add cache invalidation which makes the CloudFront caches delete and update all the new changes that may have been made ensuring no content is outdated in the cache. CloudFront also has pre-signed URLs that can be used to allow certain users access to a special link to allow them to access content.</p>