<h1>What Is AWS DyanmoDB: Key Terms and Concepts</h1>

DynamDB is an Amazon Web Services that is popularly used by made users looking for an easy NoSQL database service as it is fully managed by AWS. This blog post will go through a high level overview of the key terms and concepts that surround DynamoDB in order for you to understand it better.

<h2>Keys </h2>
DyanmoDB has a primary key that is used to store and retrieve data. However, there are two types of primary keys. These are the partition key and composite key. The partition key is based on a unique attribute such as a user ID whereas the composite key is based on a partition key plus a sort key. The partition key doesn’t need to be unique for the composite key but the sort key should be.

<h2>Strongly Consistent vs. Eventually Consistent </h2>
Consistency is a term often used when talking about a databases read and write speed. DynamoDB by default uses what is called eventually consistent reads in which when a user reads data from the table the results given back may not be the same as what was just written to the table. It takes time for the changes made to the table to be reflected. Strongly consistent reads on the other hand will give the user the most updated results but has a few downsides so it is recommended that users stick to utilizing the eventually consistent reads. Downsides include high latency and no usage of global secondary indexes.

<h2>Index</h2>
There are two types of indexes in DynamoDB. These are the local secondary index and the global secondary index. An index in general is allows for users to make a query to a column in the table. The local secondary index has the same portion key as the table but a different sort key. Data is going to be ordered based on the sort key. The is created when creating the table and cannot be edited later on. On the other hand the global secondary index has a different portion key and a different sort key that the table. This is different from the local secondary index as it can be created when creating the table and even edited afterwards. 

<h2>Provisioned Throughput</h2>
Provisioned throughput is used in DynamoDB to measure the Read Capacity Units (RCU) and WCU Write Capacity Unit (WCU) below are some important numbers to remember to calculate these. 
- 1 Write Capacity Unit = 1 x 1KB Writes per Second
- 1 Read Capacity Unit = 1 Strongly Consistent x 4KB Read per Second 
- 1 Read Capacity Unit = 2 Eventually x 4KB Read per Second

For example if I want to write 50 items per second and each item is 512 bytes than how many writes per second will that be?
So I take 512 bytes / 1KB = 512 bytes / 1024 bytes = 0.5 = about 1 * 50 = 50 Writes per Second

