<h1>Secure Your Website With AWS Certificate Manager + ALB</h1>

As a team, my group members and I have created a website that displays statistics, data, and important information to users about COVID-19. Our website is called www.awsomecovidstat.com. However, we noticed one key part in our website that could potentially worry the users of our site. Anytime you or anyone else accesses a website we often turn back when we see in the browser the caution sign followed by ‘Not Secure’. Luckily enough, AWS has a service just for this issue called AWS Certificate Manager. Follow along with the steps below to ensure your site is also secure for your users. 

1. Once you have your EC2 instance setup and can access your website through a domain setup using Amazons Route53 service, go to the AWS Certificate Manager
2. On the tab that says provision certificates click get started
3. On the option to request a certificate you have the option to request a public certificate or a private certificate. You can even import an existing certificate instead of requesting for a new one but for now I will select the oping to request a public certificate
4. Step 1 is to add the domain names in which I will be adding the domain name of the teams website www.awsomecovidstats.com
5. Next I will need to select a validation method to choose a way that AWS Certificate Manage will validate my request. Users should select the DNS validation option if they can obtain permission to modify the DNS configuration. Users should select the email validation option if they fo not have permission to modify the DNS configuration. I will select the DNS validation option.
6. Next you have the option to ad tags as you like which I will skip and go to review and then confirm my request
7. Now the request will show as pending, click on the drop down arrow next to domain and click the blue button that says create record in Route53 and click create
8. Now go to EC2 and scroll down to select Load Balancer
9. Select Application Load Balancer, give it a name, select internet-facing as the scheme and add two listeners. One HTTP on port 80 and one HTTPS on port 443
10. In the Availability Zones section select the VPC and AZs you are working from
11. In the configure security settings section, select the certificate you just created and click next
12. In the configure security groups sliest the security group or create a new one for the ALB. I will create a new security group. Add HTTP and HTTPS on the source of anywhere with the IP range of 0.0.0.0/0, ::/0
13. On configure routing keep all settings as is and register targets
14. On the review page, select the instance and click the add to registered button
15. Click next and create to create the ALB and copy the DNS of that ALB created
16. Go to Route53 and select your domain name in the hosted zones section and add the DNS of the ALB you just copied as an A record

These steps will hoepfully work to ensure your site is secure.